# CS50



## Lecture 7 (2020)

這週的重點放在資料庫，對我來說算是一個有涉略過但了解並不是很全面的主題。CS50的課程中，把它與上週的Python相結合，由與我先前所熟悉的C#不同的角度切入，應能學到不少。

### Data Processing

整理一些常見的資料彙整工具的共通點

> With a spreadsheet app like Google Sheets, Apple’s Numbers, Microsoft Excel, or others, we can:
>
> - sort our data
> - store data in rows and columns, where each additional entry is a row, and properties of each entry, like title or genre, is a column
> - decide on the **schema**, or format, of our data in advance by choosing the columns

帶出CSV database

> A **database** is a file or program that stores data for us.

> A CSV file is a **flat-file database** where the data for each column is separated by commas, and each row is on a new line, saved simply as a file.
>
> - If some data in a CSV contains a comma itself, then it’s usually surrounded by quotes as a string to prevent confusion.
> - Formulas and calculations in spreadsheet programs are built into the programs themselves; a CSV file can only store raw, static values.

> We’ll download a CSV file with the data from the spreadsheet with “File > Download”, upload it to our IDE by dragging and dropping it into our file tree, and see that it’s indeed a text file with comma-separated values matching the spreadsheet’s data.



### Cleaning

從csv中讀取指定行的內容

> We’ll start by writing `favorites.py`, choosing Python over C as our tool of choice for its libraries and abstraction:
>
> ```python
> import csv
> 
> with open("Favorite TV Shows - Form Responses 1.csv", "r") as file:
>     reader = csv.reader(file)
>     next(reader)
>     for row in reader:
>         print(row[1])
> ```
>
> - We’re going to open the file and make sure we can print the title of each row, using the `with` keyword in Python that will close our file for us after we leave its scope, based on indentation.
> - `open` uses read mode by default, but to be clear in our code we’ll add `r` explicitly.
> - The `csv` library has a `reader` function that will create a `reader` variable we can use.
> - We’ll call `next` to skip the first row, since that’s the header row, and then use a loop to print the second column in each row, which is the title.

把csv讀出來並存為dictionary物件

> To improve this, we’ll use a `DictReader`, dictionary reader, which creates a dictionary from each row, allowing us to access each column by its name. We also don’t need to skip the header row in this case, since the `DictReader` will use it automatically.
>
> ```python
> import csv
> 
> with open("Favorite TV Shows - Form Responses 1.csv", "r") as file:
>     reader = csv.DictReader(file)
> 
>     for row in reader:
>         print(row["title"])
> ```
>
> - Since the first row in our CSV has the names of the columns, it can be used to label each column in our data as well.





## Quiz 7

